some cities require absolutely no
introduction in London's one of them
it's a busy city full of postcard sights
royalty and over 8 million people who
enjoy everything this world-class city
has to offer including West End theatres
the arts shopping gorgeous parks
championship soccer and yes I have to
say it great food now you may not think
of fish & chips as great food but
they're easily one of England's most
iconic dishes they're served in
virtually every pub on every street but
I'm going to take you to one of the very
best fish and chip shops in the city
it's easily accessible from any nearby
underground station by the way the tube
which is what they call it is the
easiest way to get from anywhere to
London's Victoria Station which is right
down the street from where we're going
for dinner and that would be C fresh
London Big Ben Buckingham Palace
Westminster Abbey the Tower of London
and the Queen and what's for dinner
tonight oh come on you kidding me it's
fish and chips of course what else
back at home fish & chips has always
been one of my favorites so just before
I flew across the pond I did my homework
I discovered that see fresh restaurant
right across the street here in central
London has some of the best fish and
chips in all of England there's
absolutely no way I was gonna miss out
on this golden tender and crispy
opportunity to taste one of this
country's most
famous dishes there's something fishy
going up there I'm gonna check out this
place it's real clean and simple just
fish and chips pretty much what you're
getting and a lot of good company the
menu has different kinds of fish you can
have fried or grilled and I asked which
of the fish they'd recommend for my
fishing ships and they said Cod over
both cod is definitely the way to go
they're big white flakes unlike haddock
which are a little bit smaller and it's
so sweet and tender and crispy on the
outside which is exactly how fish and
chips ship
everybody here has been terrific I had a
great time you can hear from all the
noise in the background everybody else
is having a great time - hey you're in
luck you don't have to come all the way
to London make great fish and chips at
home I've got some great recipes for you
first stop back the seafood department
at Nino's a team I'm doing some fish and
chips tonight what have you got you got
some Cod oh don't look great those are
pretty good side what size filets are
those alright give me two of them
alright
don't be late 6 o'clock
English Fish and Chips they're not only
a classic dish they're practically
synonymous with England itself to the
English there is iconic as well Big Ben
injustice sacred as Westminster Abbey
which means they'd better be authentic
and that means batter dip not breaded
fried not baked fresh not frozen
definitely big fillets not sticks or
Nuggets and that's for the chips well
they're not the kind of potato chip we
normally associate with that word rather
they're fresh russet potatoes and those
would be Idaho potatoes which are
generally cut into fat sticks there I
call them french fries and then double
fried but more about that later with
that said how about we give it a toss
let's head over to the kitchen where
I've got everything we need ready to go
both of my recipes are beyond simple so
you might be tempted to add additional
ingredients to make it better don't it
really won't improve these recipes extra
ingredients will just make them
different
so what fish do I use while the two most
common fish used for fish and chips are
Cod like this piece right here and
haddock but I prefer Cod and apparently
so do my English friends specifically
fresh cod fillets about 4 to 5 inches
long and about a half an inch to 1 inch
thick the batter itself is very easy
just place 1 cup of all-purpose flour in
a medium sized mixing bowl with a 1/2
teaspoon of pepper 1 teaspoon of salt
and then whisk in an equal quantity of
beer which would be about a cup the
final consistency should be that of a
thin pancake batter pretty easy huh hey
let's talk about it for a second first
of all for all of you on a gluten-free
diet you're in luck because rice flour
and a gluten-free beer will actually
work
and by the way regular Budweiser or Bud
Light are said not to be gluten free but
there are others that are speaking of
beer
I prefer nail like this one it doesn't
have to be English but what the heck it
can't hurt huh a pilsner bill will also
work well but I'd stay away from stouts
I find them a little too bitter and it
ruins the delicate flavor of the fish
whichever beer you choose though I
recommend you allow the finnish batter
to rest about an hour before using it
this will reduce some of the fizziness
which
gives you a better crust in the end next
to egg or not to egg well you may find
that some batter recipes call for an egg
mine doesn't it's not necessary granted
an egg can help the batter to stick to
the fish a little bit better but the
downside is that it can also make the
crust more doughy and less crisp okay my
batter is rested for about an hour
let's go fry some fish you know you're
going to find it's a whole lot easier
than you think
okay I know I'm lucky to have a deep fat
fryer but you don't need one in your
home just simply take a medium sized
saucepan in about a quart of canola oil
or vegetable oil and heat it to about
350 degrees and that will work just the
same as my deep fat fryer will so to
start your fish I've actually taken some
more flour with salt and pepper and I
placed it in a shallow bowl and what
you're going to do is you're going to
take your fish fillet that I've cut
you're going to place it in the flour
and you're going to bread it or flour it
on both sides okay after you've done
that you're going to simply just grab
the corner shake off any excess flour
and place it in your batter you want to
make sure that it gets coated really
well on both sides this batter like I
said before is about the thickness of a
thin pancake batter we're going to let
it all drip off that's important because
if you leave all that excess batter on
and let it into the oil what's going to
happen is all that batter is going to
kind of blow off the side of the fillet
and that's not good so we've shaken this
a little bit just very carefully lower
it into the fat I'm not letting it touch
the bottom quite yet until it starts to
firm up then I'm going to just kind of
lay it down just like that so already
you're going to see that after a moment
or two they're going to start to float a
little bit and that's because the batter
starts to expand a little bit and create
some air inside of it and that's good
because it's going to make the final
fillet nice and crispy that's it we're
going to let this cook for about six to
eight minutes we're going to turn over
once in the process okay it's been about
eight minutes or so I turn these over
once on each side so they've been frying
in each side about four or five minutes
and they look great they look nice and
crispy what you want to do now is to
just lift them out
carefully how golden-brown those are
just tap it slightly on a little bit of
absorbent paper towel and that would be
one portion of fish right there alright
we're going to make our chips now now
chips aren't french fries they're more
like fat your regular shape which is
like they're chipped from a potato
that's how they get their name we're
going to do is we're going to start out
with a russet potato which you would
know is in Idaho and whether you use a
potato peeler or use a knife and I'm
sometimes more comfortable using a
paring knife than I am a potato peeler
you're going to trim off all of the skin
you can leave little on if you like but
definitely take the eyes out of the
potato those are not something you want
to have left in there alright so we get
our potato trim just like this and
typically you're going to want to cut
them about Oh 3/8 of an inch thick I
take the extra corner off here and I
will then cut them just like this we're
getting something like that now what I
want you to do is you're going to take
some water some cold water maybe the
little salt in it and you're going to
place your chips in the water and you're
going to let them rinse for a while okay
and then after that we're going to take
them out and place them on to a couple
layers of paper Tom we're going to Pat
them dry I'm going to let them sit after
that for a few minutes to make sure
they're really really dry that's very
very important and after that we're
going to double fry them I'm going to
show you that in a minute okay my chips
are nice and dry been patting them down
for a couple of minutes I'm going to
lift them off carefully into my basket
or you can put them into a skimmer and
lower them into your fat if you have a
quart sized pan with some oil in it and
I have set this at two hundred and
ninety degrees not much lower than you
normally fry french fries but these are
not going to be actually cooking to turn
brown they're going to be cooking to
just take the flesh and make sure it's
nice and tender so we're going to drop
it into the oil you see it's not making
all this great noise and lots of bubbles
and steam coming up because the
temperature they all is much lower than
it normally is we're going to let those
cook for about three or four minutes
until they're nice and tender on the
inside and then we're going to pull them
out and let them rest again after
they've rested a few moments we're going
to turn the temperature the fat up to
350 degrees just like we did the fish
and we're going to fry them until
they're golden brown
and we've got chips okay it's been about
four or five minutes and my chips have
been frying at 209 degrees I want to
show you this look at how light they are
they're not dark at all and that's good
that's because it were rinsed really
well and they are tender and cooked on
the inside but they haven't browned on
the outside so what I'm going to do now
and you could do this hours ahead of
time if you wanted to even put them in
the refrigerator if you like is we're
going to let these sit you may have seen
when you go to restaurants that before
they're french fries are fried they look
like this and that's why they're nice
and fluffy on the inside tastes like
potato and they're brown on the outside
they're blanched first and that's what
we've just done so I'm going to let
these rest for a minute while I turn the
temperature my fryer up to 350 degrees
and then we're going to return these
back and fry them up to the golden-brown
and our fish and chips are done okay
the chips been frying for about four or
five minutes they're nice and golden
brown so we're going to shake off the
excess oil don't want any of that place
them on some absorbent paper towels give
them a little salt I use sea salt and
then add them to our plate us like that
a little bit of tartar sauce and there
you have it traditional English fish and
chips doesn't get any better than that
because they're so easy they're
traditional I hope you enjoyed this I
sure enjoyed it because I love fish and
chips this is Pete Lorin director of
culinary development at Nino's if you
loved this video check out some more of
them on our website at wwlp.com and
there you can check out our Facebook
page or you can tweet me at Nino's chef
Pete I just got to try this this looks
so good nice and easy
check that out it doesn't get any better
you